to tell good news to the meek ones.
He has sent me to bind up the broken hearted.
For all these years, it's hard-wired job.
I got to something.
It's from Levin Island.
He's this.
It's the very best.
This is excellent, ma'am.
That's how it's got to be right there.
Here to most people, that life was continuing on as usual
in Jerusalem.
Everyone carried on their daily tasks.
Men plied their trades.
Women saw to their homes and families.
Children learned and played more than three decades earlier.
Jesus foretold events that would mark great changes
in the world we had known.
For those of us who became as followers,
the signs of change were clearly visible.
Your taxes are due, and this will cover it.
These are my belongings.
You have no right.
Realize how severely quality of our faith
would be tested by the events surrounding
the fulfillment of those prophecies.
The idea how difficult it would be
to keep the prophetic word burning brightly in our heart
then know that the desolating of our is drawn near.
Ziff, what did Jesus say we should do then?
The midst of a strong faith could guide us
through the night of uncertainty to come.
It all happened so quickly.
The great Jewish revolt against decades of Roman oppression,
Rome's swift and brutal response.
There was hardly time to think.
Once the fulfillment of Jesus' prophecy
was unmistakably identified,
our first real test of faith came along.
The disgusting thing that causes desolation,
standing in the holy place.
That was an elder's meeting I would not soon forget.
We to the mountains.
Yes, how are we going to get out?
We have to get ready.
All right, everything that we've worked for.
What if they're wrong?
Don't think about it, Neum.
I'm trying not to.
To just walk away from all of this?
I know, it's not easy.
But it's the right thing to do.
Hey, remember when we were kids?
Wanted to be NASA, right?
Yeah, I remember.
You cut my hair real short so you could be stronger than me?
I know we have to leave.
But how?
The city's surrounded.
Jehovah will open the way somehow.
It's just all the unknowns that frighten me.
I've never lived anywhere but Jerusalem.
My brother's here.
Enter business.
How am I going to provide for you both?
I have to trust that Jehovah has a better view of the situation
than we do.
Strategically, it makes no sense.
But they aren't leaving.
Sir, the reports are the same.
In every quarter of Jerusalem, the 12th Legion
is marching toward the sea.
It's madness, divide madness.
It is deliverance.
God has delivered the holy temple from the enemy's hands.
They must feel the wrath of God upon their backs.
Pursue them.
Strike them down.
As God struck the Egyptians in the Red Sea,
overtake them and kill them.
At least, aren't pleased.
They're gone.
Let's be gone.
Punish them.
They must never get harassed the people of God.
Go.
Make sure there's plenty of these cheaper wines available today.
There's going to be a lot of celebration.
What are you doing?
Why aren't you ready to lie?
You just need a little more time.
We'll be along.
We'll catch up with you out on the road.
This is our opportunity to escape.
I agree completely.
It's the fulfillment of the sign, but it happens so quickly.
I have to get things organized before we leave.
In fact, you should be helping me, partner.
Name, listen to yourself.
This is the destruction of Jerusalem we're talking about.
Thanks for your information.
We've begun preparations for departure.
Don't worry about us.
Now, Gideon, I expect we'll be gone for maybe a week or two
with the most.
We'll hurry.
Make sure that all of the...
You ready?
He's opening the shop.
I don't understand what he's doing.
Southside, all of you follow me.
We go out the gate and turn north,
meet the main group on the west side.
These are the important things.
Will others come with us?
How about just the four of us for now?
Others will join us on the road.
And let's go.
I'm so glad we found you.
Rachel, have you heard the news?
Yes, we've heard that the Roman armies have left.
And we're going after them.
They'll pay for attacking God's holy city.
Correa.
We have some news, too.
We're leaving.
Leaving?
Why?
Where are you going?
You know what we believe.
Jesus said that when Jerusalem was surrounded by armies,
that is the signal that a great tribulation is coming.
The Romans are running away.
This is a great day.
They're deliverance.
Correa, it's not Jerusalem that Jehovah's delivered today.
It's his people.
Here's people.
Christians.
What about me, Rachel?
Your flesh and blood.
I pray at the temple.
I keep the Sabbath.
Am I nothing in God's eyes?
Correa, please.
You'll get my sister killed.
You must come with us.
It could mean your life.
Just where do you intend to go?
We're going to Pella in the mountains to the north.
Are you crazy?
That's a Gentile city.
Besides, it's too dangerous to travel.
You're safe right here.
You come with me, Jesus.
No, in Pella.
We have three.
Winter is coming.
How you live?
Jehovah will protect us.
Everything you know
is right here.
You see how foolish you're being.
Hi, let's move out.
You're all the family I have left.
Don't leave.
Here.
Keep this for me.
This was Father's.
I'll get it from you.
I'll get it from you
when I return.
Please be here.
Mac, if we delay any longer, we may be trapped.
Damn, what if the end doesn't come right away?
You mean what if Jesus was wrong?
We have a lot to lose.
Abit Hall, the house is locked, and I have the key.
Let me see it.
Let me see the key or I won't sleep tonight.
Stop worrying.
I can't believe you left Gideon in charge.
He's not even a brother.
Who else is there?
The brothers have all left.
Still, I don't trust him.
He's worked for us for years, and he knows the business.
Where do you think you're going?
I'm Neum, the wine merchant.
My wife and I are leaving to visit friends in the north.
Are you feeding and clothing his family, too?
What's all of this?
You know how it is with women.
They don't know how to travel lights.
Why?
You're a Roman sympathizer.
They've left, and you want to leave with them.
That's not true.
It's rare.
I'm a God-fearing man.
Please just let us pass.
At the time we need men most, you want to leave.
Wait.
Maybe he's a Christian.
Honest day.
Fight for the nations.
I'll deal with him.
Please let us pass.
Here, let me give you something.
A little red wine.
It's the best in Jerusalem.
bribery.
You disgust me, sir.
Let them go.
Christians are of no use to us.
Thank you.
Bless you, sir.
Take the donkeys.
What?
Let's serve them.
Let's serve.
The beast stays.
And if you ever come back,
not even your savior will be able to help you.
I promise you that.
Get him out of here.
I mean, look at us.
We're out in the wilderness.
Completely defenseless.
Jehovah has never failed us.
He got us out of Jerusalem.
He'll care for us now.
If only I had your faith.
You do have faith.
You proved that when you left your old life behind.
I never thought I'd live to actually see it.
But you didn't allow that to cloud your judgment.
You've done the right thing.
How long do you think we should wait for Neham and Abathol?
They must have left by now.
If they don't show up by dawn,
we'll go back and look for them.
I can't figure out what's taking them so long.
They had a donkey to carry all their stuff for them.
I wonder if that was wise.
The man on the housetop should not come down
to take the goods out of his house.
Ethan, you look tired.
Why don't you get some rest and I'll keep watch for a while?
Maybe I'll do that.
Ethan, Ethan, wake up.
Somebody's coming.
Cheb you?
Cheb you, is that you?
Neham?
Oh, I am so glad to see you.
What happened?
At the gate.
At swords.
There's nothing we could do.
We robbed.
They stole everything we owned.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
I'm so terrible.
Can't believe that happened.
We weren't given enough time to think this through.
Now look what's happened.
Neham, I'm really sorry about what happened to you.
But we've all left things behind.
Jesus told us to flee the city.
And that's exactly what we've done.
Maybe so.
But I still think we should have waited
until things settled down a little.
Listen, it's late.
Tomorrow's another long day.
Let's get some rest.
Exhausted.
He's something about this, doesn't add up.
What do you mean?
Think about it.
Jerusalem's to fall by the sword after we leave, right?
Right.
And Jesus said it would be like when lot left Sodom.
Fire came down from heaven suddenly.
That very day, right?
Yeah.
OK.
So what are you thinking?
The Roman army left Jerusalem.
If they're retreating, they can't destroy the city.
Unless it's not really a retreat.
It's a trick.
They're trying to draw the Jewish fighters out of the city
and into a trap.
Why else would they just leave?
They're waiting in ambush.
Ready to pounce.
Maybe that's why Jesus told us to leave immediately.
Ethan, what do you think?
I think we've done just what Jesus commanded us to do.
Isn't that the important thing, Neym?
I sympathized with Neym.
But there were just so many things
we didn't understand at the time.
And when word spread about the defeat of the Roman army
and the hands of the Jewish rebels at Bethlehem,
it only raised more questions in our decision.
So we began a new life in Pella.
Welcome, brothers and sisters from Jerusalem.
How was your journey?
Admittedly, life was simpler
and harder than it was in Jerusalem.
We had some adjustments to make.
Adjustments that would truly challenge our faith.
That's it.
That's all that's left now.
I'm supposed to work out here
in the blazing sun all day
on this pitiful bit of bird scene.
Avatar, wait.
Avatar, I'm sorry.
Has such a gift for music.
Anyone here that can teach you?
No, not really.
It would be a sin to waste that talent.
Of course, all the best teachers are in Jerusalem.
This, this is your best outer garment, Neym.
There's not enough there for a new one.
Not if you want to eat tomorrow.
What more can I do?
We're out of money.
I'm sick and tired of this place.
I can't stay here, Neym.
I know.
I'm not comfortable living with Gentiles.
Even the brothers?
I don't trust them.
Believe me, I understand.
If I could just make a decent living
in this good for nothing, place.
Or get back to my business in Jerusalem.
Oh, and everything we swear to ever coming back.
A brother from the North has sent a supply of grain
as a gift to our congregation.
We've divided it up proportionally
according to the size of each family.
Once again,
Jehovah has provided for us in our time of need.
Still, this isn't going to last long.
Where's your faith, Neym?
Jehovah has cared for us up till now.
He'll continue to do so.
I hear there's plenty of food back in Jerusalem.
Your heart never left it, did it, my brother.
Jerusalem is my home.
I was born there.
And someday, I'll return.
I left Jerusalem with a heavy heart, too.
But this is our home now.
There's no reason to believe we'll ever go back to Jerusalem.
Think, Neym.
Why did Jesus tell us to flee the city?
Because it was supposed to be destroyed.
Neym, as we speak,
60,000 Roman soldiers are attacking the cities of Galilee.
Do you really think they'll spare Jerusalem?
Maybe they won't.
But maybe they will.
It's been a year now.
I don't want to spend the rest of my life here
if nothing's happening back in Jerusalem.
It doesn't really matter when or how the in comes.
What matters is that we're faithful to Jesus.
That's amazing.
That's easy for you to say, Ethan.
You only have yourself to care for.
What about those of us with wives and children
and businesses back in Jerusalem?
We've all made sacrifices.
Think about Abraham and Sarah.
They left a wealthy city to live in tents.
They never went back there.
Jehovah blessed them.
He's blessing us, too.
You call this a blessing?
Yes, I do.
You've become blind to the blessings right in front of you
because your eyes are glued to the past.
Everything Jesus said about Jerusalem
will come true in God's due time.
Until then, focus on the work He's given us to do.
People think we're fools
because we preach about a destruction that hasn't come.
Because we ran away from our homes.
People thought Jesus was a fool, too.
But remember, no one has given up anything
for the sake of the kingdom
who will not get 100 fold now and everlasting life.
Just be glad when all of this is behind us.
These are stressful times.
So what will guide your actions now?
Nam, let it be faith
that motivates everything you do.
Still, Nam struggle to overcome his doubts
about leaving Jerusalem.
Telling you, Ethan had a sweet Jerusalem too early.
Gideons out there making money and work here.
As time wore on,
they remain the burning question
that Nam just couldn't get past.
So tell me this, why hasn't the end come?
Nam, how long are you going to keep asking that question?
I didn't have the answers.
But I knew that if we kept focused
on the more important things
and patiently waited on Jehovah,
it would all become clear for us
to keep cultivating contentment
with the circumstances we do have.
Nam imagined that life back in Jerusalem
was just the same as always,
but the reality is quite different.
Shortly after we left,
the cold hand of Salatry plunged the city
into a brutal and senseless civil war.
God acts as a Roman general better than I can do.
Our enemies are destroying one another with their own name.
Medical scene in Rome descended into anarchy
when a military coup
and a death sentence issued by the Senate
drove Emperor Nero to suicide.
Those chaotic events
made walking by faith
even more important
and even more.
Shabu, I've made up my mind
returning to Jerusalem.
Nam,
we have been over this before.
Rome has been in chaos for a year and a half
ever since Nero's suicide.
What does that have to do with us?
The Roman army never returned.
Don't you see?
Jehovah has delivered the Holy City again.
Now is the time, Shabu.
The time for what?
The time to go back.
What are you talking about?
We've slaved away here for four years now.
What do we have to show for it?
Our lives.
Our lives are back in Jerusalem.
I just want to take care of my family
and I can't do that here.
We're getting by.
We can do better than just get by.
We don't have to say another minute in this dump, Shabu.
But we have to act quickly.
Rachel and I have discussed this at length.
The answer is no.
Now please get off my plans.
That's Ethan talking.
Don't base your decisions on his opinions.
How about Jesus' words?
We did what Jesus told us to do.
We got out.
But he never said that we couldn't return.
Besides, what happened to Jerusalem?
Nothing.
Yet.
Why wouldn't Jehovah have mercy on Jerusalem, Shabu?
He's the home to the temple and to his people.
He changed his mind with Nineveh.
And that was a pagan scene.
Nineveh's repented.
And do you know that Jews are no longer God's people?
It's obvious that Jehovah has protected Jerusalem.
Not just once, but twice.
First with the route of Sestius Galus.
And now, with all the political confusion in Rome,
Jerusalem's orbit forgot.
What makes you assume those events proved Jehovah's protection over Jerusalem?
When Jesus said, it'll be destroyed.
Shabu.
Okay, let's assume that Jehovah still intends to destroy Jerusalem.
We all thought that it was going to happen as soon as we left.
But it didn't.
Did it.
We were wrong about that.
So when will it happen?
Man, you know it's impossible to know the day or the hour.
Just hear me out.
Come here, Shabu.
Jehovah foretold the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonians, right?
Yeah.
By what prophets?
By several.
Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel.
Am I right?
Yeah, you're right.
So what?
How many years in advance did he foretell that destruction?
I don't remember a few hundred anyway.
What's your point?
A few hundred years, Shabu.
That's the point.
Shabu, Jehovah is patient.
If he waited hundreds of years then, why would he rush into action now?
I don't know, name.
But you've heard the reports about what's happening in Jerusalem.
Factions fighting for control.
Violence.
Bloodshed.
Anarchy.
Stories.
Embellished and exaggerated with every telling.
Every city has its problems.
Jerusalem's no difference.
Still thousands of families march in and out of Jerusalem three times every year.
They come and they go.
Nothing happens.
Why can't we?
Just to check on things.
Name.
My friend.
We have thought and prayed about this for a long time.
And it comes down to this.
Either we obey a clear command from Jesus or we don't.
Jesus told us to leave Jerusalem.
Never indicating we should return.
Not even for a day.
We must be obedient.
We're going anyway.
Rachel.
Think of barrage.
Come with us.
You could find him.
And that boy of yours?
What kind of life is this?
We have been friends our whole lives.
We've been through a lot together.
And I have always been honest with you, name.
Now I'm telling you, you're wrong.
How can you know that?
I'm willing to die for you.
But I will not throw away my life by going back to Jerusalem.
Throw away your life.
You threw away your life when you came here.
Name.
You're still so focused on the past that you can't see the blessings right in front of your eyes.
We're going today.
My brother, I beg you.
Don't go.
Name.
What are you returning to?
To what is mine?
We have it, please.
There you do it.
My dear sister, I am sorry it took so long to reply to your letters.
But the situation in Jerusalem is desperate.
It's good that you are not here to see what has become of our beautiful city.
Jerusalem is like a ravenous beast that feeds on its own flesh,
sheds, fight on another dogs, priest, pepperous slaughtered at the temple.
Sprinkling the altar, there is starvation in the city,
two all the food reserves were destroyed.
Adam the jealousy of the political factions,
tens of thousands from the countryside say that the Roman army is burning,
Luting it, killing its way back into Jerusalem.
By now, there are only a few days away.
Be wise or still.
Not to attempt to return.
You and Shepard.
Looking back on those events,
fills me with both joy and sadness.
Joy, because we made the right decision.
But sadness, when I think of the consequences,
when material things become the motivating force behind decisions.
Now more than ever, I realize that true Christianity requires strong faith.
Faith to walk a narrow and cramped road,
even when we can't see what's around the next bend.
Faith to make decisions that defy conventional wisdom.
And faith to stick by those decisions.
Here in Pella, we don't have all the things we had in Jerusalem.
And life is much harder.
But what's really important,
is that my family and I remained loyal to Jehovah,
and survived the last days of Jerusalem.
I don't know what the future holds,
but we're determined,
come what may,
to keep walking by faith.